SPECIFICATIONS FOR FORMATTING OF WEINBERG VECTORS AND FILTER FILES

To determine and represent the topology of a Voronoi cell, we use an algorithm described by Weinberg in several papers in the 1960's.  The algorithm traces through a graph, labeling unvisited vertices in the order in which it first visits them, and then records the list of vertices which it has visited.  A Weinberg code is a finite sequence of integers 1,2,3,1, etc, each of which indicates a particular vertex in the graph.  The length of each code is 2E+1, where E is the number of edges of the graph. 

In the VoroTop code we [will] store each Weinberg code as a vector of integers, i.e., std::vector <int>.  At an earlier stage of the code we saved each code as an std::string that looked like: 01020301....  One shortcoming of this approach is that graphs with more than 99 vertices cannot be represented.  We have now (Fall 2016) decided to store codes as vectors of integers.  When storing these to disk in ASCII format, we can write 1,2,3,1,...  Overall, this will require slightly (~1.35 times) more disk space than if we wrote down 01020301... because integers greater than 9 will require three bytes instead of two (i.e., "13," instead of "13").  Additionally, reading a list of integers might be more complicated than a single string.  However, we decided that this approach will be easier because it will be consistent with Weinberg's actual usage, and is simpler to understand, requiring no explanation of how the numbers are rewritten.  Also, there is in theory no limit of having 99 vertices.  Although in general cells have fewer than 99 vertices, with open boundary conditions, it often occurs that some Voronoi cells have 100 or more vertices.  One way in which we might still make things a bit shorter is by using char data structures, which would mean that in memory  

During the transitional period, we will be able to read both types of filter files, both old ("010203...") and news ones ("1,2,3,...").  I think that in version 0.4 we will remove this feature, and make all filters online of the new kind.  

What is a filter file?  A filter file is an enumeration of a set of types, represented by their canonical Weinberg vectors, associated with some structure of interest.  For example, we can enumerate all types associated with the FCC lattice, and use this list to study a finite-temperature FCC system.  A similar procedure can be followed for other crystals, and other types of structures.  

Filter format specifications.  All initial lines beginning with a # are ignored as comments.  Perhaps we should always include the file name, date, and particular structures types in these lines.  Next we should have lines that describe the types that follow.  For example, perhaps 0 will always indicate FCC, 1 HCP, etc.  Finally, we have the individual types.  We have an integer identifier, and then a w-vector, i.e., 1,2,3,1,....  Each line is another w-vector.  Also, how should filter files be named?  We can easily enforce some sort of convention.  For example, perhaps we suggest/require that files be named "filter.<structure>", or at least begin with "filter."  Then all filters will appear together in a directory.  

VoroTop supports the Extended CFG file format of AtomEye, but not what is called the Standard format.
